---
layout: post
title:  About Me - Ben Ashby
categories: [Introduction, CV]
excerpt: Get to know Ben Ashby, a seasoned Senior Software Architect with extensive experience in cloud infrastructure, Java Enterprise, and Angular development.
---

Hello! I'm Ben Ashby, a Senior Software Architect based in South Jordan, Utah. With over a decade of experience in the industry, I've honed my skills in Java Enterprise, Angular development, and cloud infrastructure leadership. My journey in software development has been diverse and fulfilling, allowing me to work on various cutting-edge technologies and lead multi-team projects.

### Professional Background

#### Xima Software (11 years 2 months)
- **Software Architect (January 2022 - Present)**
    - Led architectural decisions and development coordination across multiple teams.
    - Mentored and trained teams on core tech stacks.
    - Developed enterprise-grade applications using Java Enterprise & Spring.
    - Crafted scalable and performant applications with Angular and advanced JavaScript.
    - Designed and implemented distributed computing systems.
    - Managed AWS and GCP infrastructures, focusing on various cloud services and Kubernetes clusters.
    - Established CI/CD pipelines in GitLab, integrating automated deployment processes.
    - Worked on HLS and DASH video streaming protocols and integrated SIP and WebRTC protocols with PBX systems.
    - Administered and optimized databases like MySQL, MariaDB, DynamoDB, and Redis.

- **Software Developer (June 2013 - December 2021)**
    - Designed and wrote internal and external web applications based on Spring and Java EE.
    - Implemented on-premise compute cluster and distributed in-memory data cache.
    - Developed javascript/html5 frontend using Angular2/Typescript, WebSockets, and Electron.

#### Ashco Group (4 years 6 months)
- **Software Engineer (January 2009 - June 2013)**
    - PHP development using Drupal and Symfony2.
    - JAVA robotics for automated machinery and reporting.

#### Ott Planetarium (3 years)
- **Web App Developer (2010 - 2013)**

#### Cache Valley Radio Group (1 year)
- **Radio Engineer (February 2008 - January 2009)**
    - Climbing towers, fixing transmitters, and installing antennas.

#### USU Physics Department (8 months)
- **Physics Assistant (January 2008 - August 2008)**

#### Best Buy (9 months)
- **Geek Squad (May 2005 - January 2006)**
    - IT Support

### Education
- **Weber State University**
    - BS, Computer Science (2011 - 2013)
- **Utah State University**
    - Computer Science (2009 - 2011)

### Skills and Certifications
- **Top Skills**: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Angular
- **Certifications**: A+ Hardware, A+ Software

### Contact
- **Location**: Herriman, UT
- **Phone**: 435.214.0429
- **Email**: mail@benashby.com
- **LinkedIn**: [Ben Ashby](https://www.linkedin.com/in/bashby)

Feel free to reach out if you want to connect or learn more about my work!
